Now that we've moved beyond the Alpha research phase and into backtesting,
we're going to refer to the set of positions on assets and
the portfolio as holdings as opposed to weights.
In the research stage,
the weights are considered percentages of the portfolios
notional and the notional doesn't need to be specified at this point.
In backtesting, in order to increase the realism of the situation,
the holdings are dollar amounts and we're testing with a specific portfolio size,
such as $50 million.
Let's review how we define things in
the earlier factor modeling project and explain what's changed and why this matters.
Recall that in the factor modeling lesson and project,
we're performing Alpha research.
So we're not yet applying strategies to any particular portfolio.
For standardization, we find weights whose sum of absolute values is one,
as in 100 percent of some portfolio size that is not yet defined.
We do this by choosing to constrain the sum of
the absolute values of the positions to be less than or equal to one.
Note that a strict equality constraint tends to make the optimization
infeasible which is why we set this to an inequality constraint.
If the sum of the absolute values is less than 100 percent,
we can assume this is as if we leave some cash on hand that isn't used to buy assets.
If we assume no liquidity issues and no cost for executing trades,
then we could apply the portfolio weights to a notional of for example
$50 million to convert those weights into holdings in units of dollars.
When we're backtesting, we need to introduce
additional realities such as the cost of executing trades.
We need to specify an actual portfolio size because
the size of a portfolio affects the cost of trade execution,
which in turn affects how well certain Alpha strategies perform.
The size of the portfolio affects the size of the positions.
The size of the positions in turn affects how costly it becomes to execute trades.
Note that we'll define the size of the portfolio
as the sum of the absolute values of the positions.
So in backtesting, there's a difference between
a $50 million portfolio and a $500 million portfolio.
Strategies that may work on
a small portfolio may not work as well with a much larger portfolio.
You may have heard about firms that purposely limit
their fund size in part because larger funds
encounter the challenge that there's an upper limit to
how much capital that can be deployed to a given Alpha strategy.
This is due to limits in liquidity and transaction costs.
To make the distinction that the positions are dollar values,
we'll refer to the positions as holdings and not as weights.
We'll make the distinction that these are holdings in order to be
more clear about what these positions represent,
namely dollar values in a portfolio of a specified size as opposed to weights.